title: A Closer Look at Southeast Asia’s Culinary Culture
tags: [indonesia, culture, asia, culinary]
image: http://gdurl.com/tgbY
intro: For many people, food is a huge part of any trip. Southeast Asia is a home to an incredibly rich history that provides you with a variety of cuisine and an opportunity to sample your favorite spice to tantalize your taste buds.
---
For many people, food is a huge part of any trip. Southeast Asia is a home to
an incredibly rich history that provides you with a variety of cuisine and an
opportunity to sample your favorite spice to tantalize your taste buds. It can
range from spicy dishes with a lot of ingredients to simple, fare dishes. Most
expats never go beyond fried noodles (bakmigoreng), fried rice (nasigoreng), or
charbroiled meat/chicken on skewers (sate) even though there is a wide array of
tasty treats.

Southeast Asian cuisine originated from Thailand. Thai food was considered to
be a meal of the peasants. Recently, archaeology discovered that metalworking
cultures of Thailand date back to 3000 BC. These metalworking cultures
eventually spread throughout Southeast Asia, bringing its cuisine with to
Indonesia, Cambodia, Malaysia, Vietnam, and Laos.

As the cuisine spread to these areas, it was also being highly influenced by
Southwest and Northeast ideas. But, Europe also played a great role in the
Southeast cuisine. When Europe and Asia were still colonies, Dutch, British and
French blended with Asian cuisine. Malaysia was a British colony; Vietnam,
Cambodia and Laos were French colonies and Indonesia a Dutch colony. All these
colonizers influenced the cuisine.

In Southeast Asia cuisine, rice and noodles are staples. The most popular
cooking technique is stir-frying. Cumin, ginger, nutmeg, cinnamon, and
coriander are essential cuisine spices in the spicy dishes. After explorers
discovered pepper in America, the Europeans introduced it to Southeast Asia.
Basil and mint are common herbs used in the traditional dishes. Most expats and
visitors refer to this food as extremely spicy, sweet and tangy, a combination
of unique taste.

Rarely will you find desserts being served in this region. Instead of the
dessert, they depend on fruits after every meal as an alternative. They also
alternatively drink various shakes and blended juice in the place of dessert.
The popular fruits here range from banana, watermelon, orange, pineapple, and
lemon. Since many of these countries are surrounded by water; mussels, crabs,
and fish are served in cuisines on a daily basis. In this part of Asia,
whiskey, especially rice whiskey, beer and wine are in plenty.

Migration and Dishes

Thailand: Thailand residents migrated from the southern parts of China about
2,000 years ago. They settled in this region with a rich variety of spicy,
Chinese influenced foods. Noodles, soy products, and dumplings are major
Chinese dishes and are common in Thailand. Indians also contributed to spicy
dishes served here. They influenced this region with coriander, cardamom,
cumin, curry and other zesty oriental spice varieties.

Indonesia: Cooking techniques in Indonesia were highly influenced by Europe,
Middle East, China, and India. The Portuguese and the Spanish traders brought
in New World products long before the Dutch established colonies on the
islands. As the merchants and the Chinese settled on the islands, they came
with noodles, stir-frying, and soybeans. The Chinese also came with mustard
greens, the daikon radish, mung beans and the Chinese cabbage.

Philippines: Here, food is a fusion of Asian cuisine with many European and
Spanish influences. Adobo (Meat or fish slowly cooked with spices and vegetable
and browned to a crispy finish), Kare-Kare (vegetables, oxtail and tripe added
to peanut broth) and pancit (any noodle dish with vegetables and meat) are
common dishes in the Philippines.

Southeast Asia’s Culinary Culture

The food culture of Southeast Asia is considered as one of the richest in Asia.
Once referred to as the land of spices, Filipino, Thai, Indonesian, and
Vietnamese foods are among the most famous exotic creations. A lot of Southeast
Asia’s identity lies in the wide variety of food that originated from common,
yet unique regions following the influence of Chinese, Indian, and European
flavors.

Ideally, in Southeast Asia eating is mostly done as a social activity. At
times, food will be served on woven mats on the ground. This style is referred
to as lesehan. Traditionally, people eat with fingers of the right hand. Finger
bowls are presented with a piece of lime floating on water to help cut grease
on your fingers. After such meals, you will likely be offered this water to
clean your fingers.

Some of the common foods you will find in Southeast Asia cuisine include basic
marinade, cabbage salad, banh mi (sandwich), coconut tapioca soup, green papaya
salad/green mango salad, curry, nuoccham (sweet lime and fish sauce with
minced/chopped garlic and chilies), pickled veggies, peanut sauce, raw beef
salad, satay, rice noodle soups (K’wayteao), spring rolls, sour soups, summer
rolls, stir fried leafy greens, and table salad. Indeed, Southeast Asia cuisine
is the place to be for your culinary satisfaction.
