title: Coldpress vs. Centrifugal Juicer: Which One Should You Buy?
tags: [health, drinks]
image: http://gdurl.com/9qf1
intro: Juicing is increasingly being accepted as the best way to eat healthy and as an alternative to the many processed snacks and drinks available.
---
Juicing is increasingly being accepted as the best way to eat healthy and as an
alternative to the many processed snacks and drinks available. Before you set
out to buy a juicer, it is important that you get acquainted with the two main
types in the market. Knowing the differences—including pros and cons of
each—will help you buy the right juicer based on your needs e.g. how long you
intend to keep the juice fresh and the variety of juices you intend to produce.
In this post, we will focus on the differences between coldpress and
centrifugal juicers, the two most common types.

Coldpress Juicer

Also called a slow or masticating juicer, a coldpress juicer is technologically
newer compared to the centrifugal design. It works by first crushing fruits or
vegetables to be juiced then presses them to extract the juice. Because of how
it works, it produces a high yield of the juice and because it does not produce
so much heat during operation, the product will retain more nutrients from the
original ingredients.  Compared to the centrifugal type, the coldpress juicer
is the less popular type in the domestic market today. The main difference
between this and the centrifugal juicer lies in the mode of operation. As the
name hints, this type relies on pressure to squeeze out the juice from the
ingredients.

Why Choose the Coldpress Juicer?

It extracts the juice by utilizing hydraulic pressure – the cold press juicer
is more effective and produces a higher yield of juice compared to the
centrifugal juicer.  This juicer is very effective in extracting juice even
from delicate leafy greens such as spinach and kales.  Juice extracted using
the coldpress juicer is less likely to have bits of vegetables and fruits in
it. This eliminates the need to filter it before consumption or storage.  Since
no heat is applied (hence coldpress), there is less oxidization of the juice.
This means the extract is fresher and can retain most ingredients for as long
as 5 to 7 days.  Downsides of the Coldpress Juicer

A good quality coldpress juicer can be quite costly. Some top-of-the-range
brands, such as Norwalk, sell the coldpress juicer for as much as $2,500.  This
juicer is quite heavy and is unsuitable for buyers who want something they can
move with ease.  Operating a coldpress juicer can be a slow and demanding
process. This explains why it is also called a slow juicer.

Centrifugal Juicer

The most popular type of juicer in the market and the most preferred for
domestic use is the centrifugal type. This machine extracts the juice from
fruits and vegetables using a fast-spinning metal blade, which slices the
ingredients and spins them against a mesh filter. The spinning mesh filter
separates the juice from the flesh using centrifugal force. It then drains the
juice into one container and the pulp into a separate container.

The fast-spinning blade of the centrifugal juicer has one major downside—it
produces heat during operation. The heat destroys some of the enzymes in the
extract and may oxidize the nutrients, rendering the juice less nutritious
compared to that produced with a coldpress juicer.

Why Choose a Centrifugal Juicer?

The centrifugal juicer is more affordable and available in a wider range of
sizes compared to the coldpress juicer.  It is easy to use and clean. This
makes the centrifugal juicer ideal for domestic users and occasional juicers.
It requires little time to set up or disassemble and it produces juice faster
than the coldpress juicer. It is also easy to carry around and store.  The
centrifugal juicer has a blade that chops the ingredients. This means it can
take most fruits and vegetables whole—the user does not need to chop them.
This juicer is great for juicing smoothies especially orange, celery, pear, and
apple kind.  Downsides of the Centrifugal Juicer

Because the fast-rotating ballade can heat up the nutrients and enzymes in the
juice, the result is a less nutrient-rich juice that can be foamy and
not-so-fresh.  The centrifugal filter system allows bits of pulps in the juice.
It is difficult to extract juice from vegetables such as spinach and kale using
the centrifugal juicer.  It has a lower yield of juice compared to the
coldpress juicer. This is because the rotating blade is designed to work fast
and often leaves the pulp with nutrients and some juice.

The coldpress juicer is more expensive and slower, but also more efficient in
extracting the juice compared to the centrifugal juicer. It is worth mentioning
that the centrifugal juicer, besides being wasteful and energy-intensive, it is
also as noisy as a blender. If you want an ideal juicer that gives you the most
nutrients and enzymes from the juice, buy a coldpress; if you are looking for
an affordable extractor that you can even use to process nuts, then the
centrifugal type of juicer is your ideal option.
