title: Everything You Wanted to Know About Aronia Berries
tags: [fruits, culture, culinary]
image: http://gdurl.com/j7gX
intro: The health industry is always buzzing with new information on super berries, and the latest one to join the list is the Aronia berry.
---
The health industry is always buzzing with new information on super berries,
and the latest one to join the list is the Aronia berry. The mother plant of
the Aronia berry is part of a genus belonging to deciduous types; loosely
referred to as the chokeberries. The plant is native to the eastern part of the
United States however; some species in this genus have been modified and
naturalized to a raft of countries in Europe. The berries have been gaining
publicity among super food enthusiasts over the last few years.

A little bit about the Aronia Berry

The Aronia plant is found mostly in the swamps and wetlands of North America.
It is hardy and has been known to survive for decades. The berries themselves
are famously known as chokeberries, a name attributed to their astringent
flavor. There are purple, red and black-purple varieties. Traditionally, these
varieties grew in the wild but are currently being actively cultivated across
eastern United States in anticipation of a surge in demand over the next few
years. For a long time now scientists have had an interest in this berry, and
years of research point to a series of healthy ingredients in its composition.

In the year 2009, the Midwest Aronia Association was born, and its motive was
to offer guidance and insight to citizens interested in farming the plant both
for commercial and residential use. Since then, it has attracted members from
Michigan, Illinois, Iowa, Mississippi, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota,
Wisconsin, Ontario (Canada), California, Minnesota, New York and South Dakota.

Applications of the Aronia super fruit

The native range of this berry extended from the east, then north into Canada
before snaking south into the Appalachians. The natives of North America
originally used the super fruit in its raw form for medicinal purposes and also
as a nutritious food substance. Those in Florida and Texas believed that it had
the power to heal all manners of the viral flu. However, its use is now more
refined and consumers are able to exercise a certain level of flexibility in
application.

When fresh, Aronia berries can be used to make juices, jams, wines and syrups.
The methods used to arrive at the final product are as varied as there are
users. what works for one consumer might not necessarily be a recipe for
others. At the commercial level, these berries are systematically pressed in
order to obtain a thick juice that is later packed and sold to the final
consumers. While the methods of production vary, there is always a motivation
to preserve the natural composition of the berry even when it has to undergo
intricate processing stages.

Dried Aronia berries are readily available in stores across the country and can
be used as a processed supplement, a quick snack or a component in baked foods.
Outside the United States, people use these fruits to whip up herbal teas rich
in anti-oxidants.

Health benefits of Aronia Berries

A cure for colds. Before the arrival of the Europeans in America, The
Potawatomi Indians used this berry as a cure for the common cold, and modern
research backs this idea. The fruit has high anti-viral potential, as well as
large volumes of compounds rich in vitamin C. The presence of these elements is
thought to give the berry a potency to fight allergens and viral compounds
within the air. The Indians ate the berry raw, used it alongside food or ground
it into powder. A consistent 3-day helping is thought to be just about enough.

Aronia is a strong antioxidant. Among the varieties of berries studied till
today, this fruit registers the highest in terms of antioxidant capacity. The
phenolic compounds present in it are capable of protecting the human body from
a series of degenerative diseases. They have also been known to help in keeping
users looking healthy by staving off the effects of aging. Antioxidants
generally bind with the cells of the body in a bid to prevent the harmful
effect of free radicals.

The inhibition of carcinogens. A research conducted by the University of
Maryland revealed that among the array of cancer-fighting foods out there,
chokeberries are the most potent. The fruit contains numerous inhibitors and is
considered one of the best ways of reducing the eventuality of the development
of cancerous tissues in the human body. It works for all types of cancer, all
the way from prostrate to blood varieties.

The presence of fiber. 100 grams of Aronia berries contain up to 16.9 grams of
fiber. This macro-nutrient has a host of benefits to the body-it enhances the
processes of digestion and metabolism in general, boosts bowel health and
prevents constipation. This fiber composition is one of the highest out there,
which further emphasizes just how important the berry is.

Aronia berries are now being lauded as some of the healthiest super fruits out
there. They come with an astringent taste and have been in use for decades in
the US as well as across Europe. With such a strong nutritious stock, it is no
surprise that these rediscovered berries are gaining so much traction all
around.
