title: Unique Health Benefits and Common Uses of Ginger Root
tags: [indonesia, health]
image: http://gdurl.com/6k-a
intro: Ginger root, or ginger, is a mass of roots (Rhizome) that grow in many places around the world. It is among the most extensively used herbal remedy, with billions of people using it every day as both medicine and food.
---
What is Ginger Root?

Ginger root, or ginger, is a mass of roots (Rhizome) that grow in many places
around the world. It is among the most extensively used herbal remedy, with
billions of people using it every day as both medicine and food. Ginger is
available as fresh root and also in dried and powdered form to be used as a
spice. Ginger root consists of knotty finger-like projections that grow
downward from the ground surface. The fresh raw root consists of a silvery gray
external surface.

Nutritional Breakdown of Ginger

A few of the most noticeable nutrients in ginger comprise amino acids,
essential fatty acids, iron, selenium, zinc, manganese, Vitamins B1, B2, B3, B6
and Vitamin C. It is a rich source of minerals like Potassium, Magnesium,
Calcium, and Phosphorous.

Common Uses of Ginger Root

Ginger root is a hot spice and its roots are fleshy and juicy. The juice
obtained from ginger roots is quite often used as a spice and is a common
element of Chinese, Japanese and many Southeast Asian cuisines. The following
are some common uses of ginger.

Sprinkle grated ginger on desserts Ginger tea – the roots can be soaked in
boiling water for preparing herbal tea to which honey is often added before
consumption Sprinkle ground ginger over vegetables before roasting. This
enhances the aroma and adds to the taste Ginger roots can be pickled with
vinegar Dry ginger root in powered form is used as a flavoring agent for
recipes such as cookies and gingerbread Ginger roots also find their uses in
traditional Ayurvedic medicine In Thailand and India, ginger-garlic paste is
used in cooking gravy based items Unique Health Benefits Offered by Ginger

Ginger has been well examined and several of its traditional uses confirmed.
Following are some of the unique health benefits of ginger root.

Curing Respiratory Issues Ginger is credited with having natural antihistamine
properties. So, it can help in the treatment of cold and bronchitis-related
issues. Ginger root has been confirmed to prevent contraction of the airways
inside the lungs. This helps in stimulating the secretion of mucus. So it works
great for those who have pneumonia. A teaspoon of the ginger juice mixed with
honey helps to cure a sore throat. Taking ginger tea during winter helps cure
congestion related issues.

Treatment of Nausea and Dizziness Chewing on the ginger root can assist in
alleviating nausea and vomiting. Most medical studies suggest that taking 1gram
of ginger one hour before surgery helps in reduction of vomiting and nausea
during the first 24 hours post- surgery. It also reduces the symptoms of
dizziness.

Curing Digestive Issues and Dyspepsia

The ginger root contains phenolic compounds, which assist in relieving
gastrointestinal irritation. It also stimulates the production of saliva and
bile juice, which help in proper digestion. The phenolic compounds in ginger
also suppress gastric contractions and facilitate the proper movement of fluids
and food through the gastrointestinal tract. It is also primarily used for the
treatment of dyspepsia – discomfort after eating. Some of the symptoms of
dyspepsia include bloating, flatulence and heartburn.

Relieve Pain and Inflammation Ginger contains essential oils such as gingerol,
shogaol, and minor amounts of ß-phelladrene. Gingerols help improve the
intestinal motility and have been credited with possession of anti-inflammatory
properties. It also acts as a painkiller (analgesic) and has anti-pyretic as
well as anti-bacterial properties. Studies advocate the fact that zingerone (a
chemical compound providing pungent character to ginger) is effective against
E. Coli bacteria-induced diarrhea, specifically in children.

Other common health benefits include:

Ginger contains a large amount of potassium, which is an important component of
cell that assists in controlling blood pressure and heart rate.  Ginger can
help to ease the pain of headaches New research suggests the role of ginger in
suppressing the cancer cells. Ginger has been shown to work against ovarian,
skin, breast and colon cancer. But more research is necessary to confirm this
fact.
