title: Understanding Green Smoothies and their Benefits
tags: [drinks, healthy]
image: http://gdurl.com/TA-g
intro: A green smoothie is made up of green leafy vegetables and fruits. Most people in the Western societies do not get enough greens in their diets which leads them to drink green smoothies as an alternative.
---
A green smoothie is made up of green leafy vegetables and fruits. Most people
in the Western societies do not get enough greens in their diets which leads
them to drink green smoothies as an alternative. These drinks were originally
invented by Ann Wigmore and were popularized by Victoria Boutenko in her book,
Green Smoothie Revolution. Today, these smoothies are not simply a passing fad.
More and more people are embracing this new healthy trend due to the many
benefits they offer to the human body.

What are the Ingredients?

Green smoothies contain a liquid for example water, coconut water, fresh milk
or fruit juice. A fruit is then added. You can add any type of fruit for
instance strawberry, pineapple, bananas, pears or mangoes. Then a desired
amount of green leafy vegetables is added. Kale and spinach are popular
vegetables. Almost any green fruit or vegetable can be added to it and still
enjoy its benefits. Fruits are used as original recipes because they mask taste
of the green vegetables and make them tasty. Follow the 60/40 rule when making
this drink. Then blend all these ingredients together.

Benefits of Green Smoothies

Green smoothies are loved by many today because of their many health benefits.
The following are some of the benefits:

Enhanced Nutrition The amount of vitamins and mineral salts depends on the
amount of fruits and vegetables you use as ingredients. For example, most
fruits and vegetables are rich in vitamin C and A. Certain fruits like avocados
are rich in magnesium and potassium. This means that drinking this beverage on
a regular basis will enhance your mineral salts and vitamins intake. This will
boost your immune system and keep you healthy.

Natural Weight Loss Drinking a green smoothie is one of the best ways to lose
weight naturally because it provides the body with the needed nutrition,
carbohydrates, vitamins, fiber and minerals. If you drink the smoothie on a
regular you will be able to lose weight fast, effectively and safely.

Increased Energy Levels Green smoothies ensure a constant supply of minerals,
vitamins, antioxidants and other essential nutrients without causing problems
to your digestive system. This also ensures that you will experience increased
energy levels to carry out your daily duties without a problem.

Easy to Digest It is necessary to note that blending vegetables and fruits
together breaks down the plant cells and makes it easy to digest. By using a
blender, you unlock the nutrients and maximize the delivery of the nutrients to
the body. This is more effective than directly chewing or eating the fruits or
vegetables.

Enhances Mental Clarity and Focus A healthy diet improves your mental
capability, clarity and focus. Green smoothies have a lot of minerals,
antioxidants and vitamins that are needed by the body to function properly. The
antioxidants and minerals obtained from these drinks are important for the
brain. In fact, instead of taking a hot coffee or tea in the morning, you can
drink a smoothie and you will be active throughout the day.

Clearer Skin Vitamins are known for repairing, improving and maintaining a
healthy skin. It is because of this fact that most beauty products contain
vitamins as the key ingredient. This natural drink is rich in the vitamins,
fiber and minerals that enable your body to eliminate harmful substances and
toxins through your skin. The smoothies will also nourish and repair the skin
giving it a young, beautiful and glossy look.

Soothes Acid Indigestion Once in a while we feel the stab of heartburn or acid
reflux. This is normal to any human being, however most of us tend to drink
water or milk to soothe this. The best way to soothe acid reflux or heartburn
is by drinking a green smoothie. The vegetables bring the pH back to a healthy
balance.

In summary, if you have not tried drinking green smoothies, you are definitely
missing a lot. They are healthy, easy to make, portable and above all they are
tasty. Consider drinking this all-natural drink on the regular and enjoy the
many benefits they offer.
